MUSIC: Little Lies
by Fleetwood Mac
# Tell me lies
CLAUDIA JOINS IN: # Tell me
sweet little lies... #
No.
RADIO DIAL TURNS
# Killing me softly
with his song... #
Yeah. I need more upbeat.
RADIO DIAL TURNS
MUSIC: The Traitors Main Theme
Oh. there it is.
Are they on their way?
OWL HOOTS
Good. Keep an eye on them.
22 people from across the UK
have been invited to
this Scottish castle...
Let's go. team!
..to play the ultimate
psychological game of deception...
I'm scared!
SCREAMING
..all in the hope of winning
up to £120.000.
They'll work together as a team
to build up the prize pot
by completing epic missions.
Oh. no!
But hidden amongst them
are the Traitors.
who. under the cover of darkness.
will secretly murder
their fellow players.
It's up to the Faithful to work out
who the Traitors are and banish them
before they become
their next victim.
Let's go!
Who will live?
SCREAMING
Who will die?
This is The Traitors.
Good evening.
You stand before
the Traitors Turret.
Before you take the Traitors Oath.
I imagine you're wondering
why this cloak
is a different colour.
I can now reveal
you have a special role.
You...are my Secret Traitor.
TRAIN WHISTLE BLOWS
My name's Harriet.
I used to be a criminal barrister.
Now I'm an author
of psychological thrillers.
The beginning of chapter one.
So I'm hiding the fact that I'm
a crime writer and an ex-barrister.
because I think it will make me
a huge target.
Ah!
Oh. sh...
LUGGAGE CLATTERS
I'm Stephen.
I'm from the Isle of Lewis
in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland.
Growing up queer
on a small. isolated community
is very difficult.
I love your shoes.
Thank you very much.
I've spent my formative years
having to be different people
depending on the environment
that I'm in...
I'm from the Isle of Lewis.
Oh. how lovely! Yeah.
But I live in London now.
..and so I'm hoping
that comes in handy here.
I'm Judy. I'm just 60.
I'm a hugger. Oh. so am I!
I'm Stephen.
I work in fostering and adoption.
I think the job I'm in. you have to
make decisions on the spot.
Hey!
THEY LAUGH
So I like to think
I'm a tough cookie.
I will speak my mind.
Take it or leave it. that's just me.
TRAIN WHISTLE BLOWS
I love a cow! I mean.
this is my happy place.
Are you an outdoorsy person?
Yeah. I do a lot of hiking.
Yeah. What do you do?
I'm a teacher! Oh. nice.
Being a teacher. I feel like
I've got a lot of strings to my bow
that I can pull on
and hopefully help me win this game.
I'm an artist. Oh. really?
I draw my pension every month.
THEY LAUGH
Ross. Ellie.
I live and work in London.
What about yourself?
Yeah. I also live in London.
Is it?!
So what made you apply?
I consider myself
a very competitive person.
When I am gunning
or working very hard at something.
I tend to perspirate.
and so "Sweaty Ross" will do
anything he can to win.
It's not pretty.
but I've won a lot of things.
Oh. you're going to be good
at the challenges. then.
That's my plan!
We've got a new recruit.
The skills that I'm going to be
relying on
are going to be
that I've got a really good sense
of what makes people tick
and. ultimately.
how I can get them to do
what I want.
How you doing? How are you?
I'm Sam.
I'm a fantastic liar to people
that don't know me...
Hello! Hi. How crazy is this?
..and I will throw whoever under
the bus to make sure that I win.
SHE LAUGHS
Hi! Hello! Hi!
Looking forward to meeting you all!
What a lovely welcome.
I'm Fiona and I live in Swansea.
Come here. Fiona! You all right?
Faraaz. Nice to meet you.
It's nice to have a cwtch.
I'm 28 years of age.
SHE LAUGHS
It was my best age.
so I'm sticking to it!
Hello! Hello. hi!
You've got to see the fun in things.
Oh! I can feel the ground rumbling.
Can you?
No.
THEY LAUGH
There it is! Oh. it's so cute!
That's incredible!
Wow. this is so exciting!
Oh!
WHISPERS:He's quite dashing.
isn't he?
There I am. there I am!
Hello. hello!
I couldn't find my name!
It's actually crazy... I know.
..moving on the train.
What was your name?
SHE EXHALES
My name's...
You're going to have to bear with me
because I have a stammer.
OK. It's a bit like you have to.
like. run and build up to it.
Right.
My name's...
..Jessie.
Having to tell people my name
is one of the biggest tests ever.
So... You just did it. ..I'm really
pleased. You just did it!
Well done. Thank you!
Hello. guys. You all right?
Whereabouts are you from?
Swansea.
Oh. brilliant. So I'm from Cardiff.
Lovely! Originally. but I've been
in London for so long now.
So what do you do in London?
So I'm a barrister.
I'm choosing to be upfront
with people about being a barrister.
so I'm hopeful that people will
see me as fun and approachable
and not some sort of lawyer in
a suit that's going to be icy cold.
Where are you from. sorry? I'm...
I'm trying to persuade the Welsh
person that I'm from Cardiff.
The jury's out!
I'm an excellent judge of character.
and I'll use that in this game.
What's your most passionate hobby?
Ghost hunting.
SHE GASPS
Ghost hunting. yeah? Stop!
Talk to us.
After my dad passed. I wanted to
make sure he was there. so I just...
Me and my mates dived into that.
and that was it.
Any spirits in the castle?
I don't know. Ain't been there yet!
Just when they think
they know how to play!
Here we go!
I can't wait to see the castle.
Oh. my stomach's in knots. but it's.
like. excitement knots.
Like. butterflies.
I'm Rachel. I'm 42.
There's nothing that I won't do
to win a game.
I work in communications.
I have three kids.
I know how to negotiate.
I just have a tendency
of knowing the right thing to say
and how to get what I want.
First one to see the castle gets
10p.
More like 120 grand!
THEY LAUGH
It is all about to start.
My hands are getting sweaty. Yeah!
That's it. Yay! We're here!
Hugo. it's 10p for you.
There it is!
CHEERING
Oh. my God! I can't believe
we're here in real life.
What is going on?!
Oh. wow! This is happening.
No way! This isn't real.
Get out of town!
Oh. my gosh! Oh. my gosh!
Oh. my gosh! Woohoo!
Oh. this is sick.
Oh. it's so weird. isn't it?
Let's go. let's go. let's go!
I don't even know where
to take myself.
Hello!
THEY LAUGH
I get out of the car and I recognise
the face of someone called Ross
I've met. like. ten or 15 years
ago.
I know him!
What?! That's crazy.
ROSS:We actually...
We do actually...
Oh. my God!
I had no idea
that Ross was going to be here.
But. actually. it feels really nice
to see a familiar face.
This is insane! So do you know each
other from London?
It was. like. years ago.
Years ago. years ago.
Yeah. Like. we've not seen
each other in a long time.
Oh. my God. it's Claudia!
Hello!
Oh. my God!
Hello. players.Hello!
Welcome to the Traitors castle.
THEY CHEER
Congratulations.
You made it off the train.
That doesn't...always happen.
LAUGHTER
You should know. though. things are
about to get quite sinister.
This castle is full of secrets
and lies.
I have a question for you -
are you ready to play the game
of your lives?
THEY CHEER
Please go into the castle.
OWL HOOTS
THEY CHEER
Come on in!
Oh. my God!
Oh. mama!
Oh. my God. what is happening?
This is wild!
Honey. I'm home! Oh. my....
It was mad. Like. am I...?
Am I here? Is this me?
Isn't this unreal? Isn't this crazy?
This is so real now.
I'm a big. avid video gamer.
and I play a lot of
social deception games.
so it doesn't really get better
than this.
It's like a giant murder mystery.
Oh. my God!
Look at all these goodies!
Dates. Your Jelly Babies.
Digestives. Chocolate buttons!
I'm a family man.
We're a very close-knit family.
How many kids have you got?
I've got five. Five?
Five children? Yeah.
Oh. good grief!
I want to play this game
because this is something
for them to be proud of.
I'm just overjoyed that I'm here.
Family tree?
Can you speak Latin at all?
Totally. It says. "Rachel is going
to win this game."
Yeah. go on. Rachel!
I love it. I love it.
Is it too early
for a very dry sherry?
Never too early. surely!
Where are you. Fiona? There you are.
right in the middle.
Yeah! Looking incredibly sly!
Amanda's...
Oh. yeah?
I'm one of the short ones here.
so they put me at the bottom.
Easier to pick off.
Yeah. easier to pick off!
My name's Amanda. I'm from Brighton.
and I volunteer for a charity.
What's in there? I don't know!
I'm also a retired
detective chief inspector.
but I'm not going to tell anyone.
Oh. it's the bar!
My game plan is to use the skill set
that I've got.
whether I'm a Traitor or a Faithful.
But I know that there's a job to do.
What do you want. love?
SHE LAUGHS
Sorry. I need to come
and sit next to you.
In a weird twist of fate.
we know each other.
No?! We do indeed. Yes! We have a
mutual friend from a few years ago.
Aha! To be fair. we've not met
for years. though.
Literally! For. like... Well.
I've been in Glasgow for ten years
and I've not seen you in that time.
Ten years plus. Ten years plus.
Did you work together? Or how did
you know each other?
No. we just had
a mutual friend in London.
Oh. cool. Is it scary
that you know each other or...?
I love... I think I love it.
I think it's good.
I'm not sure how it looks. Yeah.
NETTY LAUGHS
Seeing Netty for the first time.
I was initially like.
"Ooh. can we try...?"
HE LAUGHS
But she's a very honest person.
so she's gone. "Ross!"
And so. you know. I didn't want
to betray her
because. yeah. it was actually
genuinely really nice to see her.
But in the back of my mind.
I was thinking. "Uh-oh.
this looks a bit suss."
The players are about to sit
at the Round Table
for the very first time.
As always. I will pick my Traitors.
But I'm going to do something else.
I'm also going to pick
a Secret Traitor.
Nobody will know who that is -
not the Traitors and not even you.
It's naughty. isn't it?
What would you do with the money?
Me and my partner actually did
get engaged... Aw!..during Covid.
And if I win. then I might have
to follow through. Yeah!
Who can deny a gay wedding?
You know what I mean? The best!
I want to take my little girl
off around the world.
see different places.
experience different things.
My mum has dementia.
and I want to use that money
to make memories with her
and with my kids.
I'd love to win money
to take my wife
on a honeymoon that she's never had.
cos I was in the forces.
so she's never had a honeymoon.
Growing up. we didn't
really have much financially
and my parents gave everything.
so I would just love to repay
the favour.
I'd love to be able to pay for me
and my family to go to Hajj
and complete
that religious pilgrimage.
And then with the leftover.
you know.
I wouldn't mind a new motor.
you know what I mean?
Welcome to the Round Table.
I'm going to be honest with you -
things are about to get
very. very real.
as your fates are about
to be decided.
How strategic are you?
I'm quite smart.
I can't remember names.
I can't spell names.
but strategy-wise. I'm really
three steps ahead of everyone.
I'm able to make
meaningful relationships.
but I will drop those in an instant
if I have to.
I want people to see me
as that Essex PT stereotype.
I don't want them to really know
what I'm truly like.
From playing chess
every single day competitively.
I've got that strategic mind.
I'm very. very good
at reading people.
I am completely made for this game.
I've lied my way into
a presidential bath suite
by pretending I was the President
of Ireland's daughter.
My game started the second I got out
of the car. Yeah.
I am able to draw people in.
get them to let their guards down.
but I wouldn't have any qualms
in cutting people down
to get to where I need to be.
CLAUDIA GASPS
How does lying make you feel?
When you get away with it.
then it's wonderful. isn't it?
Telling the traffic warden.
"I've only been here two minutes!"
Yeah.And you've been parked up
for about three hours.
I want you to do something for me.
I want you to look at each other -
really. really look at each other -
because this is the last time
you will sit here as equals.
In just a moment.
I will select my Traitors.
Big question now -
would you like to be a Traitor
or a Faithful?
100% Traitor. Would you?!
I've found baddies all my life.
Now it's time to be one.
CLAUDIA GASPS
Traitor. People could not possibly
believe that I have it in me.
They think I'm just like
the class clown.
Traitor. definitely.
I do think I could be a Traitor.
I think I just have more to give
as a Faithful
and rooting out
who the Traitors are.
I would love to be a Traitor.
Why. Netty?
I just think you have more fun
with it.
I really. really want to be
a Traitor.
A Traitor. 100%.
I want to be a Traitor.
100% Traitor.
I would love to be a Traitor.
Why?I would just love a free pass
to be a wee bit naughty.
Because I'm so bubbly and jolly
in the work I do.
I think. let me go to the dark side
as a Traitor.
I would love to be a Traitor. Why?
I see myself as
a kind of psychopathic teddy bear.
There's a "Hug" in my name.
But get too close.
there'll be a dagger in your back.
Players...
..it's time.
Please put on your blindfolds.
If you feel me touch your shoulder.
that means you are a Traitor.
My heart is absolutely coming out
of my chest.
And everyone around me
is listening for the slightest
shortness of breath or gasp.
There's absolutely nowhere to hide.
LAUGHING:I'm a Traitor!
Oh. my goodness. I can't believe
I'm saying that!
I am buzzing.
I don't know myself any more.
Give me the cloak. who am I going
to become? Jesus Christ!
My poor mother's going to be
beside herself.
I really wanted this.
and I was manifesting
and just visualising Claudia
tapping the shoulder.
And then when she did. I was like.
"Oh. my God!"
I can't wait to murder people.
which sounds so bad.
but I can't wait.
I'm really looking forward to it.
My goodness me!
My heart has never beated
as fast or as hard
as when Queen Claudia tapped me
on the shoulder.
Players. I have selected
my Traitors.
The rest of you are the Faithful.
The game has officially begun.
Please remove your blindfolds.
Traitors...
..you will meet and discover
each other's identities tonight.
Your job is to remain undetected
and murder the Faithful.
Faithful. your job is to stay alive.
hunt the Traitors and banish them
before you become their next victim.
Remember. if there are
any Traitors left at the end.
they take all the money.
But that is a long way off.
That was quite tense. wasn't it?
Oh. Jesus!
How many laps was that?
Like a shark!
So I have some good news.
There is no murder tonight.
THEY CHEER. CLAP
Instead. players. I've laid on
some drinks for you.
Go and enjoy.
But don't relax too much -
because tomorrow.
the killing begins in earnest.
Goodnight.
Oh. my God!
And breathe!
Now it starts!
So. Hugo. Rachel and Stephen
are now my Traitors.
But what you didn't see is
who I picked for my Secret Traitor.
Do you know who it is?
Could you guess?
It's weird trying to look at. like.
everybody's faces. isn't it? Yeah.
It could be anyone!
Wow!
God. so exciting.
Did you notice anyone was
any different afterwards?
It's so difficult to tell. isn't it?
I know.
None of us know each other
that well...
No. I know. ..to even read. like.
body language
or facial expressions.
There's some...
There are some little
telltale signs.
Like. I've already noticed
one person.
but I'm not going to say who it is.
Really?
Oh. but. guys. no murder!
We're all going to be at breakfast!
No murder. my goodness me!
That's really good news.
We can get a good sleep tonight.
Yeah.
I am so excited for this game of
cat and mouse.
My game plan is keep doing
what I've been doing all day today -
making friends with the people
I think are the most Faithful.
We're going to find
those Traitors together.
That's our plan. That's our job.
Let the games begin.
Look at all that gold. ladies!
Look at that!
Well. that was
the most nerve-racking thing
I've ever experienced. I think...
Yeah. it was definitely more intense
than what I expected.
You're not a Traitor. are you?
Oh. a big fat dirty one!
SHE LAUGHS
OK. I'm taking it.
I'm putting that in my pocket!
Oh? I've not got it in me. yeah!
I've not got it in me.
I don't think I've got it...
I'm so glad you're not.
I'm very good at deceiving people.
especially people
that don't know me.
I sound so cruel.
I'm a nice person in real life!
But this is a game. and I'm just...
Yeah. I'm here to win.
I did think I wanted to be.
I was very. very clear.
But I actually feel... Great. and
relieved. ..quite relieved...
Yeah. it's a nice feeling...
I think that now
it is sort of proper detective work.
We've all got to sort of try
and sort of suss it out.
With a bit of luck. we will do.
but... No. absolutely. Hey-ho.
The Round Table. it was daunting.
You just thought. "Oh. my God!"
Very scary. but I loved it.
I loved every bit of that.
What a relief. Sleep easy tonight.
Well... Glad there's no murder.
..no murder tonight.
Yeah. which that's...
So we can just chill out.
Work it out a bit better
tomorrow. maybe.
I am a Traitor.
I'm absolutely delighted.
It's what I came here to do.
But I don't really have a good take
on who the other Traitors are
right now. which is interesting.
And it puts us in a vulnerable
position. I suppose.
Blimey!
Do you feel like
you saw anything. or...?
Cos obviously we have nothing
to go on... You know what?
I found it really hard.
I didn't necessarily notice anyone
had gone really quiet or. like...
Do you know what I mean?
I think I saw Judy.
It is just weird
you said that name... Uh-huh.
..because I feel like the vibe
was definitely different to me
before and after.
The shift that I saw was with Judy.
I was quite open with
putting that out there.
As much as it is really lovely
to get to know people.
this is a game.
If I need to. you know.
stir the pot a little bit.
then I will do it if I feel
it will help me with the game.
Can I ask you something?
Yeah. go on. Please do.
Because we should be looking
at a change in behaviour.
because I haven't spent time
with some people.
how am I going to notice
if their behaviour...?
If they're different? If it's
different? Yeah. I understand that.
Look out for the people
who aren't offering opinions -
"I'll let everyone else
do the work."
Look out for them.
My game plan going forward
is to listen
and to build up those relationships
with people.
trusting relationships.
Did you notice anyone...
Yeah. ..act weirdly?
Me and you clocked the same person.
Matt. there was something about him.
Like. a glazed look on him. Matt?
Yeah. it was a glazed look.
Most people that I saw
were looking round the room.
Jade was. like. looking
straight down.
And she looked terrified.
Ah! Like. really scared.
It could be nerves. I don't know.
but that's the only thing I've got.
Now that the Traitors selection
has happened. the game's started.
You cannot trust anyone.
I've always seen myself as a leader.
not a follower.
so my game plan has to be
in line with that.
I just know you're a Faithful!
I've got a feeling - I just know.
Because I'm so relaxed?
And I know that will probably put me
in a bit of danger.
But I'm here to win.
James. did you see anything?
Erm.. Hang on. let me just check.
LAUGHTER
I saw a few things. Right. go on.
I'm not saying anything yet.
No. you need to!
Yeah. but they'll just murder me!
One of them's in here.
Oh! Yeah.
We've got a massive advantage.
the Faithfuls.
we're the massive majority -
cos they don't know
who their team-mates are.
I think they'd be scared to upset...
To point fingers tonight.
..their team-mate inadvertently.
# I see trees of green
# Red roses too... #
I don't want to throw any. like.
spanner in the works.
but somebody here
could be a Traitor.
It's very likely. Yeah. I know.
We're sat here having
nice. cosy conversations
cos we're all Faithfuls.
As the time's going on.
their heart rate's going down.
they're getting away with it.
they're comfortable.
So we've got to. like...
I don't know.
Tonight is the night.
but it's slowly coming to an end.
Yeah.
They don't know out there
the training that I've had -
covert policing. intelligence.
My secret weapon is I have both
the Jekyll and Hyde personalities...
..to do what I have to do.
# What a wonderful world... #
CLOCK CHIMES
Oh. right! That's it.
That's me. then. OK. right!
The castle clock has chimed.
which means all the players must
return to their individual lodgings.
where they can't see
or speak to anyone.
# And I think to myself
# What a wonderful world. #
But for the Traitors.
the night is still young.
They must prepare
for their first conclave.
when they will reveal
their true identities.
And. as they're about to find out.
this castle is full of secrets -
even for them.
You stand before
the Traitors Turret.
Before I give you this cloak.
I'm going to need you
to take the Traitors Oath.
Do you commit to lie and deceive
throughout this game?
I do.
Are you willing to murder
one of your fellow players
every single night?
I am.
And do you vow to keep your identity
and the identity
of your fellow Traitors a secret?
I do.
It gives me great pleasure to say
you are officially a Traitor.
SHE GASPS
Thank you so much!
Green does look good on you.
Looks quite good. doesn't it?
In you go.
Going into the conclave.
I'm thinking.
"My entire game rests on the people
that I'm going to meet in here."
I can't kick my strategy off
until I see who I'm sharing
the cloaks with.
I'm really excited to meet
the other Traitors.
I don't have a great idea
of who they are.
but I can't wait.
I can't wait to find out.
Oh. my God!
THEY LAUGH
Rachel!
We're going to smash this.
What are the chances?!
I feel Rachel and I are going to
work together very well.
because we're very different.
Oh. that is so funny.
Wow! I'm delighted.
Oh. you're going to be fun
to play with.
HE SPUTTERS
I think Hugo's a devil.
From the minute I met Hugo.
I thought. "I'll get along with you.
"but I definitely don't trust you."
And I think he would feed me
to the wolves like that.
You are so sub-radar.
Oh. that's good.
Also. I think you might have tried
to banish me
if we hadn't been Traitors.
Without a doubt.
I am so excited to see who else
is in that Turret with me.
This is single-handedly
the most exciting moment of my life.
KNOCK ON DOOR
There he is!
The best-dressed Traitor!
I never knew!
I can't believe it!
This is crazy.
When I saw Rachel.
I could not believe it.
I was convinced that
she was a Faithful.
I'm a little bit unsure about Hugo.
I think out of the three of us.
he is possibly going to be the one
that attracts suspicion the soonest.
So we can't murder tonight.
I know! I'm gutted.
I was really looking forward
to just getting straight in.
Yeah! You savage!
KNOCK ON DOOR
Hello!
THEY GASP
Oh. hello. my dear!
Did I scare you?
He's very jumpy!
I'm quite jittery tonight!
Well. it's a big deal.
It's a big deal!
You're a Traitor!
I just had to pop in
because I have a small confession.
Oh! Oh. no. Mm.
You are not the only Traitors
in this castle.
At the Round Table.
I picked one other Traitor -
the Secret Traitor.
No?! Oh. my God.
You still have power.
but not quite as much.
You are my Secret Traitor.
You will not be joining
your fellow Traitors tonight.
Instead. you will be
controlling them.
That Secret Traitor
will work alone.
Each night. they will provide you
with a murder shortlist.
Ah!
You can only murder
one of the people
that is on the murder shortlist.
Because they're a Traitor.
they won't put themselves on it.
And. of course.
they won't put you on it.
Let me add this -
you do not know who they are.
but they know exactly who you are.
# Oh. you wanna
play God tonight... #
I can now reveal
who your fellow Traitors are -
Rachel. Stephen and Hugo.
You are the only player in the game
who knows everyone's identities.
Tomorrow is the first murder.
and the Secret Traitor will covertly
provide the murder shortlist.
Understood?Understood. OK.
Not appreciated. Queen of Darkness!
You are the Secret Traitor.
Use your powers wisely.
This is twisted.
Just the way I like it.
Tomorrow the real work begins.
SHE GASPS SOFTLY
Well. that's a twisty-turny
thing. isn't it?
No. that's just made it
so much more complex. It has.
We don't know how long we've got
to survive for.
No. but we need to regain our power.
And then chuck this person
under the bus!
How dare they usurp us?!
Oh. my goodness.
Is that what you'd do to us? No. but
you're not... We're all equals.
Come on!
SHE CHUCKLES
I am so annoyed about this.
I do not require middle management.
I'm going to be looking tomorrow at
who is acting differently around me
because they know I'm a Traitor.
Who the hell is the Secret Traitor?
I just want to have free rein
of who we murder.
So if we just watch. Watch.
And then... We've got to observe.
I'll watch who's watching you lads.
Right.
That's a bombshell. I don't know
how that's going to play out.
but I have eyes like a hawk.
I'm going to be watching
everybody tomorrow.
and I'm hopefully going to
suss out that Secret Traitor.
Because there
was no murder last night.
the players are heading straight
to their first mission.
# Ready to go... #
This is their opportunity
to come together
and start building that
all-important prize pot.
# It's a crack. I'm back
# Yeah. I'm standing on
the rooftops shouting out
# Baby. I'm ready to go... #
Mission today.
Woohoo! Whey. let's go. guys!
First mission.
it's going to be a big one. right?
Yeah. 100%. We've got to try
and bag as much as we can. ain't we?
# Baby. I'm ready to go! #
There's genuinely no-one in this
car that I suspect at all.
I'm going to bet a lot of money
that Matt is a Traitor.
Matt and I get on really well.
but I felt a shift in his energy
when I was talking to him
after the Round Table.
Who do you think is a Traitor?
Judy's name was brought up.
Yeah. a lot.
I haven't brought her up yet.
but I did have her...
Her name.
Oh! Look how gorgeous this is. OK...
No! Stop it!
What is all that in the water?
Oh. my God.
# Do you remember the good old days
# Before the ghost town?
They're coffins! No. they're not!
Are they? Are they?! No. stop it!
Oh. we're going to
get wet. aren't we?
Open water! Not my best mate.
And coffins - I don't think they're
anyone's best mate. to be honest.
Let's go. girls!
Oh. my God. they ARE coffins.
Oh. my God!
# This town
# Is coming like a ghost town... #
Coffins on a lake.
It's a little bit ominous. isn't it?
I'm so excited
for the first mission.
Running around like a madman with
Claudia Winkleman watching me do it.
So buzzing.
Players. welcome to
your first mission.
ALL CHEER
Are you ready to add money
to the prize fund?
ALL:Yes!
OK.
Floating out there on this
beautiful loch are 100 coffins.
12 of them contain gold.
All you have to do is tow
the coffin containing the gold
to that graveyard over there.
and place the coffin
in an open grave.
For every coffin in an open grave.
I will add £1.000 to the prize fund.
CHEERING
Let's do it. Come on.
So. if you are entirely successful.
£12.000 could be added
to your prize pot.
Yeah. Nice start.
You have 45 minutes to do this.
Nice. That's not long.
There are three rowing boats there
that will help you.
and your time will start
when you hear me ring my bell.
Enormous luck.
Please - go and get ready.
Guys. guys. should we. like.
organise ourselves?
So there's three boats.
Seven. seven. eight.
The more I think about
the Secret Traitor.
the more I think the Secret Traitor
has more pressure on them
than we do.
I think we need some strength.
Yeah. we do. definitely.
We need some strength. Definitely.
So I'm going to be looking
for signs of pressure.
I'm going to be looking
for how they interact with me
and the other Traitors.
We need to have a balance of...
Yeah. ..men and women. Yeah.
I will be watching
and listening very carefully.
Come on. team. Come on. team.
We're all in this together.
All in this together.
LAUGHTER
It's a beautiful day.
Lovely day for towing coffins.
Three. two. one.
BELL CLANGS
Go. go. go. go!Go!
You all right? Yes. thank you.
my darling.
Yes. yes! Yes. let's go!
We had to split into three teams
and row over to those 100 coffins
and find 12 which had
money signs on the top.
Right. check these coffins
along the edge. OK.
Can you see that?
That's an X. That's an X.
Keep going! We need to go left!
Stop. Mum! Stop. stop. stop. guys!
What is that? What is that?
I can't see?
Netty. keep your eyes out.
Money! It's money!
CHEERING
OK. OK. OK. Back pedal. back pedal.
I do think
people do underestimate me.
And I do think that's one of the
driving forces for me to kind of
push to be here.
You know. I'm 42 years old.
I'm a single mother on my own.
I've got a limb difference.
But do you know what? I can do this.
Yes. Netty!
CHEERING
Nice. nice. Go! Got it.
Well done! Bring it to me!
Sorry.
Why are we...? Just do it...
We're not going anywhere.
We are. we are. We're not.
We're literally not moving.
Surely we're not moving. Normal row.
not too powerful. though.
Just keep it... Keep it light.
Keep it light.
Every time we moved forward.
we was being pulled back
and I thought.
"The current can't be this strong."
Oh. my... We're on the...
We're on the wrong clip.
We're on the wrong clip. Oh. my God!
You are kidding us?!
It turned out that we had
actually left the anchor
attached to the coffin and therefore
we weren't moving anywhere.
What a disaster.
There's one coming here.
Can you see it?
SHOUTING
We got one. We got one.
That's it. Well done.
In. out...
We're getting there.
So the players think that
this mission is straightforward.
All they have to do -
find a gold coffin
and place it in an open grave.
But. of course.
there's always a twist.
Oh. my God.
it's got our names on it!
"To bank the gold.
a coffin must be placed in a grave."
Oh. my God. "Players
with a coffin in their grave
"will be up for murder tonight.
"Players with empty graves
will be shielded from murder."
The graves with coffins in them
will be up for murder tonight.
I thought. "Oh. my God. here we go."
Right. Who? Who?
Rachel's nearest. Rachel's nearest.
Right. Ready? Three. two. one.
Pop it in. we can go back down then.
can't we? All right. let's go back.
Let's go again.
Our reasoning wasn't at all
to do with Rachel.
It's to do with how close we were
to Rachel's grave.
It's horrible. but it wasn't. like.
a major consideration for us.
That is a bit of a twist. isn't it?
So £1.000 is banked
for the prize fund.
but Rachel is also
up for murder tonight.
Except she isn't. of course.
Right. let's go.
Let's go. Go. go. go.
Oh. the graves
have got our names on it. Oh. no!
"To bank the gold a coffin must be
placed in a grave. Players with
"a coffin in their grave
will be up for murder tonight."
Oh. Rachel! Oh! Oh. Rachel. no!
I'm shocked. but secretly delighted.
because I was never
going to be murdered.
So I just thought. use it
as a good opportunity
to cement yourself as a Faithful.
Let's be realistic. They're probably
going to think for themselves.
Yeah. We should think for ourselves.
Right. come on. then.
what are we doing? Just choose
any in any other boat. James.
OK. James. Sorry. James!
Well done. guys. Well done. guys.
Slowly does it. Well done. well
done. well done. Right. let's go.
We just done it random. We just
thought. "Get it in there.
"get back out there. get more gold."
Cos every coffin that we brung in
was worth £1.000.
Right. let's go.
Let's get a jog on. shall we?
Stop. stop. stop. "Players
with a coffin in their grave
"will be up for murder tonight."
James. there's one in yours.
James. you've got a... Bastard!
Has anyone got any names. or
are we happy just to go anywhere?
Any! Just go... Fiona. Fiona. Fiona.
That'll do.
I was very keen as a Traitor
to make sure
that not too much thought was given
to which graves
we put the coffins in.
We filled up the nearest graves
to where we arrived.
and we figured we could just say.
"Well. we just did the nearest ones.
"we didn't think about it."
Right. let's go. Quick. quick.
quick. Come on. guys. let's go.
So. currently up for murder -
Fiona. Rachel and James.
£3.000 banked.
But there's still time.
Now. controversially. are we just
picking any other graves
that are not ours?
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Money! Money. money. money!
CHEERING
Get it. get it. get it.
Red have got their next coffin!
So first name that we see
that's not ours. yeah?
There's no malice. isn't it?
Right. who's not in our team?
Ross isn't in our team.
he's closest to us.
shall we just go for that? Yeah. OK.
Just as long as they're not...
I feel like I can't do Ross.
RIP. I can't! It's done. I'm sorry.
Netty.
He'll probably do you! Go!
I can't quite get a read on Netty.
It's really frustrating
that we don't know
who the Secret Traitor is.
I think. for me.
I'm finding it quite difficult
because I normally am able
to break into people quite easily.
And Netty I've not managed
to crack yet.
If there's someone that we've got
a strong suspicion is a Traitor.
it's one less Faithful
they can kill.
Has anyone got any suspicions?
Adam. He went bright bloody red
at the Round Table yesterday.
James throws out names quite a lot.
He's creating noise and chaos.
In terms of the game strategy.
James is brilliant
cos he's making noise that helps me.
He's there. he's there on the left.
The only evidence I've got is
he was bright red. Watch your hands.
Well done. guys.
Over half your time is gone.
but you're doing brilliantly.
Does anyone have any suspicions
of any Traitors yet?
Cos there's no point putting in any
of those you're suspicious of.
If you're putting in a suspected
Traitor...
I've got a suspicion
of Judy and Reece.
OK. Let's not do them. then.
There's a few here empty.
Let's just go down the left.
Quick. quick. we're wasting time.
Who are we doing? Judy.
We're going Judy. All right. Gotcha.
Only because her name came up
yesterday.
Our strategy was. let's not
put coffins in the graves
of suspected Traitors.
Why has Fiona pushed us to do that
when I thought we'd all agreed?
If you put the coffin in.
you're saving them. are you?
No. they're up for being murdered.
Oh! You see?
I got you. got you. got you.
So half the coffins have been found.
Still six more to find.
OK. keep going. What's this one on
the right? What's that one?
X. OK. keep going.
Ladies. what ones are on the left?
Oh. there's... Yes!
I told you! You're brilliant.
Money. money! There's money!
Oh. I think two coffins are coming.
I think two coffins are coming.
This would be majestic.
If we're there at the same time
as them. they won't probably put it
in one of ours. So get there. so.
like. put them off their decision.
OK. Reece. Reece. Reece. Reece is
here. go. We're doing Reece.
It was a lot of pressure
to be in because
obviously we don't want
to put anyone up for murder
because we just met each other.
This game is already trying to drive
a wedge between people.
First one we see that's not us
on the back. right? Come on.
Oh. no. they put one in mine! No!
When I saw my coffin.
it absolutely freaked me out a bit.
But I just thought.
"Just carry on. Brace through it."
It's out of my hands.
Right. guys. we need to just
choose a random one that's not ours.
RIP. Faraaz. Sorry. Faraaz.
We love you. Love you. mate.
Let's go!
Come on!
You only have five minutes left!
Steady on this bit. Steady on
the rocks. Let them do it first.
OK. Tactically.
let them go first. Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Otherwise they'll watch what we do
and they'll start
second-guessing us
and we might not be doing
the right thing. Trust me. trust me.
I think about things.
Hugo says - I think. wisely -
"If we let them get up to the grave
"before us and then we get there.
"they'll not put the coffin
in any of our graves."
Go. Pick somebody's.
I don't think Maz is a Traitor.
OK. well. let's do Maz.
Row! Row!
I think Netty's name
has been thrown out
because her and Ross
know each other. OK. fine.
Right. come on. let's go.
Let's cheer them in.
Let's go. guys! Come on!
Part of me hopes
that they wouldn't make it
cos I really didn't want
to be murdered.
Row! Row! Row!
Three. two. one.
BELL CLANGS
We were just seconds out of time.
It was the most crushing feeling.
ALL GROAN
The mission's over. Well done.
Everyone. come in.
Gather round. please.
I have to say.
I am so impressed with you.
And congratulations.
because you have added a mammoth
£10.000.Come on. guys!
What an extraordinary team you are.
You have also learnt a very
important lesson.
On The Traitors.
there is always a sting in the tail.
By banking that money.
it means that ten people
are up for murder.
Will the following people
please stand by their graves?
Rachel.
James.
Fiona.
Ross.
There is a lot going on in my head.
The Netty scenario
has been coming up.
I think it's put a target
on my back.
Adam.
Judy.
It's brutal. isn't it?
Reece.
Faraaz.
Maz.
And Netty.
Take a long look at those coffins
in front of you.
Because one of you
will be in it tonight.
The rest of you
are shielded from murder.
Congratulations.
It was quite nice to see
the squad of people up for murder.
I was doing my best to look around.
and there's something about Judy
that makes me suspicious.
She's very confident. very calm.
Could she be the Secret Traitor?
It is time to go back to the castle.
This is the last time
you will all be together.
There is no Round Table tonight.
so go and enjoy your evening.
And congratulations.
£10.000 added to the pot.
Off you go.Well done. guys.
So. as horrible as it was
to see everyone standing
behind their gravestones.
to be honest. for me.
the overriding feeling was relief
because I don't want
to be on people's radar.
For us to get ten.
I think was pretty good.
Yeah. I'm really impressed
we got ten.
Guys. I think
I'm going to go tonight.
When we lay out the people that were
a bit more forthcoming last night.
I put a name out. If I put myself
in the Traitors' shoes now.
I might just go.
"Who would I kill to completely
throw them off the scent?"
Yeah. Yes.
Who placed my coffin? We did.
It was first there.
I'm so sorry. It's OK. it's OK.
I'm really. really looking forward
to the first murder tonight.
but I'm a little bit apprehensive
who the Secret Traitor
is going to put forward.
But the thought of murdering
is to die for.
Does anyone think anything
of anyone?
Like. if you're happy to say.
Fiona. Fiona.
Capable. She falls into
that bracket of
doesn't think she could do it.
but absolutely could do it. for me.
Yeah. I'm not going to lie
to you. Judy.
you're in that category. for me.
What. I could...? What?
Be a Traitor.
I'm not saying you are.
but I do think you're capable.
But I think we could all do it.
Yeah.
What a day!
Going in for a shower.
What a day. Oh. my God.
Are you up for murder tonight?
Mm. Yeah. me too. Are you?! Yeah.
SHE LAUGHS
And how do you feel about it?
You know what. Maz? I'm like.
what will be will be.
Do you mind if I join you?
Yeah. Come on. sit down.
We're just laughing. Well.
let's make the most of it. Yeah.
Yes. of course I am. Oh. my God.
I was quite curious as to who
had selected a coffin for me.
I've only been here 24 hours.
I can't have made an enemy
in 24 hours.
That's impossible.
It is what it is. It is what it is.
It is. It's out of our hands.
What will be will be. won't it?
Yeah. But you start overthinking it.
People are saying.
"I haven't slept." I thought.
"I slept like a baby. me." And me.
So just remind me of the four
that you put in. please.
The first two we did
were you and Adam.
We'll all agree on this. that
we just kind of were rushing
to put a coffin in.
and sorry that we put it in yours.
Yeah. This evening
was obviously very difficult
for those ten people whose names
are on the list.
and you've got to feel for them.
But we don't know if one of them
is the Secret Traitor.
It's supremely annoying
and frustrating.
The whole point of being a Traitor
is having perfect information.
And now there's somebody above us
in the chain.
Let's go get a drink. Oh. yes.
Oooh. It says "Traitors Tipple."
So it's up to you...
Or "Faithful Fancy."
Cheers. Cheers. Sorry.
yes. that was rude of me.
No. it's all good. Definitely.
I'm going to drink this to try
and get in the Traitors' mind.
Let's get some food.
Come on. let's get something to eat.
Wait. Oh. OK. So...
You're joking. He's not
even on my radar whatsoever.
Judy. Apparently. everyone thinks
Judy's a Traitor. apparently. What?!
I... I have heard a few things.
but I didn't know
it was that widespread.
Oh. my gosh.
James is running wild
saying Judy is a Traitor.
I don't know
if she's a Traitor or not.
Judy seems lovely.
but I'm bound to say that.
considering she's my mum.
Bloody hell.
Well. my mind's scrambled.
Keeping it secret.
just because I think
if you come in as a pair.
it's almost like an alliance.
I feel super protective over her.
And hearing anyone. like.
cast doubt on her for her actions
is just generally not quite nice.
Cheers. everyone.
Cheers. everyone. Cheers. guys.
OK. yeah.
I'm glad I've got you.
We'll talk outside.
Roxy was nearly five
when we adopted her.
and that was the best thing
I ever did.
I want to grab you both.
Oh. OK. What's happening?
I want to grab both of you. Let's
go. I can't hear what you're saying.
I'm deaf!
You've probably deafened yourself.
You're a very loud lady.
If that's OK to say that.
Excuse me?! Sorry.
She's just an amazing person.
inside and out.
Don't ever underestimate her because
she's a very strong person as well.
I've not heard your name. Oh. yeah.
but you all bloody heard mine.
Yeah. Judy. I have heard...
I don't think it means anything.
I really don't think
it means anything.
I'm not sure. because people are
putting a lot of heat on you.
Well. I don't understand why.
cos I've not done anything.
I don't think for one second.
I really don't. I don't. I don't.
but I'm just saying...
I really don't. ..maybe. like...
Because I don't want you to go.
but you have to get around the group
or do something.
Well. I'm telling you now.
people are just throwing people
under the bus and I think.
"How can you tell
over a couple of days?"
I just wanted to let you guys know.
Yeah.
Do with it what you will.
Thank you.
Yeah. Obviously. we'll keep this.
you know... Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Keep it to ourselves. yeah.
Just. if I do hear. I will let you
know. Yeah.
I've heard. obviously. that my
name's been pushed around a lot.
I'm gutted. but I think
at the moment
we've had a little talk
and I think. me knowing Roxy.
she's trying to keep me in
and give me a bit of advice.
She's going to protect me
all the way.
All right. let's go back and mingle.
Come on. then.
I'm loving this secret
because nobody's got a clue.
SHE LAUGHS
I'm struggling so much.
Like. I'm really trying
to just watch people.
That is what you should do. Yeah.
That's what I'm doing.
Yeah. You know?
And I don't have this.
you know. this weight
of being a Traitor on my shoulders.
Yeah. So I'm. like... This is me.
I am super relaxed.
I am worried about Amanda.
She's very clever. very switched on.
I think she's suspicious.
I reckon I'm going to be murdered.
If I'm a Traitor.
I'm going to murder people
that I think. "That's never going
to get back to me."
CLOCK CHIMES
It's been a pleasure. I'm going to
say I WILL see you tomorrow.
CLOCK CHIMES
Bye. Sleep well. darling. Cheerio.
Take care. Bye.
The castle clock has chimed.
which means the Faithful must return
to their individual lodgings.
But for our Traitors. they must
meet under the cloak of darkness
and decide on their first kill.
But who will they have
to choose from?
That is up to our Secret Traitor.
# They told me that the end is near
# They told me
that the end is near... #
I've spoken to quite a lot of
the other people in the castle.
and there's obvious people
to keep in the game
that would benefit
all of the Traitors.
So I'm just hoping
the Secret Traitor is clued in
and is on the same kind of
wavelength as us.
Hopefully they don't mess it up
for us.
# They told me
that the end is near... #
Well!
What a day.
So how did you get in a coffin?
They were an alphabetical order.
so it was the easiest position.
It's what I would have done.
Yeah. But I think it's good.
I think it's good for you as well.
Yeah. How are you feeling in general
at the moment.
with the vibe in the castle?
I haven't heard
either of your names.
either of your names either.
I think we're OK right now.
I think we're OK as well.
So who do we hope we can murder?
Fiona? She's very bright.
I think she's pretending to be a bit
less... Clued in. ..perceptive...
Right. ..than she actually is.
Right.
Well. why not Adam?
Adam's also quite a good choice
as well.
He's very straightforward.
Very straightforward.
And. with that. bright.
So he could be another threat to us
in the long term. Yeah.
It'll be very interesting to see
who is on the list.
not just because it defines
who we can take out.
but because it might give us a clue
as to who is behind it.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Come in. Hello?
Hi.We have the pleasure.
It is my pleasure.Oh. thank you.
So. Traitors.
tonight is your first vote.Oh!
Very exciting. I can't wait.
After today's mission.
there were ten names up for killing.
Mm-hm.
The Secret Traitor
has whittled down that shortlist
and now you have only three names
to choose from.
You will find those names
on the lectern. just behind you.
I feel like I've given you a gift
because it wipes out three suspects
of who could be the Secret Traitor.
That's true. Mm. That's very true.
So. I always like to say this -
it makes me feel warm
and fuzzy inside -
happy murdering.
Oh! Thank you very much.
Goodnight.Goodnight. Goodnight.
OK. who wants to do the honours?
Rachel? OK.
Are you ready? Drum roll.
"Dear Traitors.
"you must murder one of the
following Faithful tonight.
"James...
"..Netty...
"..or Maz.
"Signed. the Secret Traitor."
Well. that's a bit of a curveball.
isn't it?
Oh. no. That's diff...
That's not helpful. is it?
We wouldn't have chosen
that shortlist.
Where's their head at?
I personally wouldn't have put those
three on the shortlist tonight.
It is slightly deflating
to have someone else dictate
who we can and can't murder.
I've got a suspicion about
the Secret Traitor.
and I think it could be Judy.
Oh.
I just have a feeling she could be
the person behind all of this.
I think she's one to watch.
She's definitely one to watch.
Wouldn't Amanda be great? I mean.
she would be a great Traitor.
Mm-hm. A dangerous one.
If you're the Secret Traitor.
you want to make our life difficult.
Of course. But do you?
Yes. because they want us
to have the heat on us. not them.
I don't think they're working
with us. I think they are thinking
solely about themselves right now.
Well. we've got to make the best
of it.
Claudia inserted this
middle management.
ALL LAUGH
We cannot question
Our Lady of Death.
I think the first killing
tells a lot about the Traitors.
and that's probably
the biggest fear.
is that I don't have control
over the narrative
coming from the Secret Traitor.
I want that control back.
so I am going to do
absolutely everything
in my power
to hunt that Secret Traitor down.
# Everybody
# Wants to rule the world. #